[Example] AWS EFA Example (#5318)
skypilot-org/skypilot: examples/aws_efa/README.md

> # Using AWS Elastic Fabric Adapter (EFA) on HyperPod/EKS with SkyPilot

Reviewer: can we add this example page to our doc page as well? https://docs.skypilot.co/en/latest/examples/frameworks/index.html

```yaml
config:
  kubernetes:
    pod_config:
      spec:
        containers:
        - resources:
            limits:
              vpc.amazonaws.com/efa: 4
            requests:
              vpc.amazonaws.com/efa: 4
```

This section is important for EFA integration:

- `config.kubernetes.pod_config`: Provides Kubernetes-specific pod configuration
- `spec.containers[0].resources`: Defines resource requirements
  - `limits.vpc.amazonaws.com/efa: 4`: Limits the Pod to use 4 EFA devices
  - `requests.vpc.amazonaws.com/efa: 4`: Requests 4 EFA devices for the Pod

The `vpc.amazonaws.com/efa` resource type is exposed by the AWS EFA device plugin in Kubernetes. 
To see how many EFA are available for each instance types that have EFA, see the [Network cards](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-eni.html#network-cards) list in the Amazon EC2 User Guide.

Check the following table for the GPU and EFA count mapping for AWS `p4` and `p5` instance types:

| Instance Type | GPU Type | #EFA |
|---------------|----------|------|
| p4d.24xlarge  | A100:8   | 4    |
| p4de.24xlarge | A100:8   | 4    |
| p5.48xlarge   | H100:8   | 32   |
| p5e.48xlarge  | H200:8   | 32   |

> | p5en.48xlarge | H200:8   | 16   |

Reviewer: Can't it be A10G? IIRC, the previous readme has A10G

Reviewer 2: Added more GPU-EFA mappings.

> Update the EFA number in the [nccl_efa.yaml](nccl_efa.yaml) for your instance type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the EFA number in the [nccl_efa.yaml](nccl_efa.yaml) for the GPUs you used.
```

Reviewer 2: Updated

# Using AWS Elastic Fabric Adapter (EFA) with SkyPilot

## What is AWS EFA?

Elastic Fabric Adapter (EFA) is a network interface for Amazon EC2 instances that enables high-performance computing and machine learning applications to scale efficiently in the cloud. EFA provides lower latency, higher throughput, and OS-bypass capabilities that are critical for communication-intensive workloads such as distributed training.

> ### Setting up EFA cluster 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setting up EFA on EKS
```

Reviewer 2: Updated

For complete details on setting up EFA with Amazon EKS, refer to the [official AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/node-efa.html).

To check if EFA is enabled, run 
```
kubectl get nodes "-o=custom-columns=NAME:.metadata.name,INSTANCETYPE:.metadata.labels.node\.kubernetes\.io/instance-type,GPU:.status.allocatable.nvidia\.com/gpu,EFA:.status.allocatable.vpc\.amazonaws\.com/efa"
```
you can expect a sample output like
```
NAME                           INSTANCETYPE    GPU   EFA
hyperpod-i-055aeff9546187dee   ml.g5.8xlarge   1     1
hyperpod-i-09662f64f615c96f5   ml.g5.8xlarge   1     1
hyperpod-i-099e2a84aba621d52   ml.g5.8xlarge   1     1
...
```

> ### Kubernetes-Specific Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Turn on EFA in SkyPilot YAML
```

Reviewer 2: Updated

This example demonstrates how to configure SkyPilot to use EFA for NCCL performance testing on AWS. Let's break down the `nccl_efa.yaml` file component by component:

```yaml
config:
  kubernetes:
    pod_config:
      spec:
        containers:
        - resources:
            limits:
              vpc.amazonaws.com/efa: 2
            requests:
              vpc.amazonaws.com/efa: 2
```

This section is important for EFA integration:

- `config.kubernetes.pod_config`: Provides Kubernetes-specific pod configuration
- `spec.containers[0].resources`: Defines resource requirements
  - `limits.vpc.amazonaws.com/efa: 2`: Limits the pod to using 2 EFA devices
  - `requests.vpc.amazonaws.com/efa: 2`: Requests 2 EFA devices for the pod

The `vpc.amazonaws.com/efa` resource type is exposed by the AWS EFA device plugin in Kubernetes. 

> ### Basic Task Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Running NCCL test with EFA using SkyPilot
```

Reviewer 2: Updated

```yaml
name: nccl-test

resources:
  cloud: kubernetes
  accelerators: A100:2
  cpus: 64
  image_id: docker:public.ecr.aws/hpc-cloud/nccl-tests:latest

num_nodes: 2

> ```

Reviewer: How about include the setup/run section here as well, to make it more complete

Reviewer 2: Updated

The image_id provides the environment setup for NCCL (NVIDIA Collective Communications Library) and EFA (Elastic Fabric Adapter):

- [NCCL](https://developer.nvidia.com/nccl) is NVIDIA's library for multi-GPU and multi-node collective communication operations
- [EFA](https://aws.amazon.com/hpc/efa/) is AWS's network interface for high-performance computing applications
- [CUDA](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit) is NVIDIA's parallel computing platform and programming model for GPUs

> ## Running the EFA Test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To run the NCCL test with EFA support:

```bash

> sky launch examples/aws_efa/nccl_efa.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sky launch -c efa examples/aws_efa/nccl_efa.yaml
```

Reviewer 2: Updated

```

SkyPilot will:
1. Schedule the task on a Kubernetes cluster with EFA-enabled nodes
2. Launch containers with the required EFA devices
3. Execute the NCCL performance test with EFA networking
4. Output performance metrics showing the benefits of EFA for distributed training

> 

Reviewer: Let's have some numbers here : )

Reviewer 2: Add `Test result` section.

> To verify that EFA is successfully used, you can ssh to the head node by checking `sky status` and run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify that EFA is successfully used, you can ssh to the head node with `ssh efa` and run: 
```

Reviewer 2: Updated

        containers:
        - resources:
            limits:
              vpc.amazonaws.com/efa: 4
              nvidia.com/gpu: 8
            requests:
              vpc.amazonaws.com/efa: 4
              nvidia.com/gpu: 8
```

This section is important for EFA integration:

- `config.kubernetes.pod_config`: Provides Kubernetes-specific pod configuration
- `spec.containers[0].resources`: Defines resource requirements
  - `limits.vpc.amazonaws.com/efa: 4`: Limits the Pod to use 4 EFA devices

>   - `limits.nvidia.com/gpu: 8`: Limits the Pod to use 8 GPUs

Reviewer 2: Removed

  - `requests.vpc.amazonaws.com/efa: 4`: Requests 4 EFA devices for the Pod
  - `requests.nvidia.com/gpu: 8`: Requests 8 GPUs for the Pod

The `vpc.amazonaws.com/efa` resource type is exposed by the AWS EFA device plugin in Kubernetes. 

> To see how many EFA are available for each instance types that have EFA, see the [Network cards](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-eni.html#network-cards) list in the Amazon EC2 User Guide.

Reviewer 2: Updated

> To see how many GPUs are available for each instance types, see [EC2 Instance Types](https://aws.amazon.com/cn/ec2/instance-types/) and select Accelerated Computing.

Reviewer 2: Removed

Update the EFA and GPU number in the `nccl_efa.yaml` for your instance type.

## Running NCCL test with EFA using SkyPilot

> ```yaml

Reviewer 2: Link the yaml here.
